Creating Pivot Tables and Charts
Process
Step 1: Creating Pivot Tables
Sal By Role Pivot Table
Go to Insert > Pivot Table.
Select the data range (make sure to select the entire range of data).
Place the Pivot Table in a new worksheet.
In the Pivot Table Fields panel, drag the following:
Rows: Drag Role (or equivalent column).
Values: Drag Salary and set it to Average (right-click > Summarize Values By > Average).
This will show the average salary by role.
Number of Science Data Related Jobs Employment By State Pivot Table
Follow the same steps as above but use the State column in the Rows section and Values (Count) of Role Type in the Values section.
This will show the count of Science Data Related Jobs by state.
Sal By Size Pivot Table
Repeat the pivot table process, using Company Size in the Rows section and Salary in the Values section (set to Average).
This will show the average salary by company size.
Sal by Sector Pivot Table
Repeat the pivot table process, using Sector in the Rows section and Salary in the Values section (set to Average).
This will show the average salary by sector.
Sector with the Lowest and Highest Data Science related Jobs Employment Pivot Table
Follow the same steps as above but use the Sector column in the Rows section and Values (Count) of Role Type in the Values section.
This will show the count of Science Data Related Jobs by sector.
Step 2: Charts for Each Pivot Table
Created Charts for Min and Max Salary per Job Role
Created Charts for Average Max Salary per Company Size
Created Chart for Top 5 States with the Most Number of Data Science Related Jobs
Created Chart for Min and Max Salary per Sector
Step 3: Creating Dashboard
Slicers
Added Slicers for "Role Type," "Size," "State," and "Sector" from PivotTables.
Charts
Added Charts on the Dashboard
Created Design
I chose green as it symbolizes our school City College of Angeles
Added the Map of US States with Number of Science Data Jobs
Inserted a map chart
Populate the map with data from the count of Data Science Jobs per State
Search Bar
Added Search bar by using filter function
Hidden the connected cell from text Box by making it white
Created design for search bar
Output:
